# The Metropolitan Museum of Art Collection

## A Spaciotemporal View of Art

Imagine having access to a world-class collection of art and antiquities at your fingertips, available for your viewing pleasure at any time.  Most of us will never have the means to own museum-quality fine art, but The Metropolitan Museum of Art is providing public access to high-resolution scans and documentation of its collection free of charge, to view on-line from anywhere in the world.  The Museum’s collection, available as an electronic dataset, is currently approaching half a million records, almost a quarter of its over two million total works.  Each object in the dataset has a variety of geographic information available about the artist and the art.  With this information we can see the geographic origination of the Museums asseccions, and changes to the location of origination in the collection over time.

This map, created using the documentation made available by the Museum, uses the world-wide locations of the artworks’ origination, and allows the geographic information to be cohesively visualized.  Geovisualization of the collection origination over space and time can provide interesting insights by comparing the type and style of artwork being produced around the world during the same period.  This map was created to provide a straightforward process to conceptualize the collection's data.  The Museum’s collection stretches across 5,000 years, from antiquity to the present, and the high-resolution scans, along with geographic information such as city and country, provide an engaging visualization as well as analytic potential.

The map is designed for wide-ranging appeal, including to audiences with little knowledge of art, geography, or the internet, through the intersection of these distinct knowledge spaces.  The map will enable viewing the objects in the collection’s dataset using the provided geographic information.  It also provides a cartographic visualization of a variety of relationships between art and geography through time.  The inclusion of the high-resolution scanned images of the original artwork that is in the public domain, will inspire a diverse audience, from casual browsers to artists and educators to view images of some of the most important historical and artistic works in existence.  This access will also allow a wide variety of users to creatively incorporate the public domain artworks for their own purposes.  While The Metropolitan Museum of Art is physically located in New York City, the electronic information made available by the museum, used through this map interface, will enable people from around the world to experience fine art, and use the public domain artwork in their own creative endeavors.

The data for this map is being made available by <a href=https://github.com/metmuseum>The Metropolitan Museum of Art Open Access GitHub</a>, and <a href=https://metmuseum.github.io>The Metropolitan Museum of Art Collection API</a>.  The data available on GitHub is provided as a .csv file, using git-lfs (large file storage).  As of March 2019, almost half a million records have been provided.  This data was read into a <a href="https://jupyter.org">jupyter notebook</a>, using <a href="https://www.python.org">python</a>, joined to geographic data obtained from <a href="https://simplemaps.com/data/world-cities">simplemaps World Cities Database</a>, and converted to a GeoJSON.  In addition to the geographic information, additional information about each object is provided for the title, artist, department, and object date.  Additional narrative about each object is available through a link to The Metropolitan Museum of Art webpage.  

The map is a web browser based application accessible across mobile and desktop devices.  The technology stack and JavaScript libraries used are:
HTML/SVG/CSS/JS,
<a href=https://leafletjs.com>Leaflet</a>, an open-source JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps,
<a href=https://d3js.org>D3.js</a>, a JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data, and
<a href=https://getbootstrap.com>Bootstrap</a>.  The web page is designed to work cross-platform, and is optimized for mobile devices.  As more and more users access the internet primarily through their phones, simplicity is a key factor in creating a responsive design for mobile users.

The artwork is visually represented based upon the location information provided in the dataset of objects in the publilc domain. In order to improve locational accuracy, city names without country names were excluded.  Locations with a high density of objects are represented as color coded clustered points depending upon the zoom level of the map.

Users can engage and interact with the map in a variety of ways.   Standard pan and zoom capabilities are available using the +/- buttons on the map, or by using the the scroll wheel on the mouse.   Clicking on a marker will trigger a popup allowing the user to view the artwork details, as well as a preview of the object in the sidebar. For additional narrative content on an object, clicking on the title of the object will open a new bowser tab to the object page on The Metropolitan Museum of Art webpage.  In addition, an analysis created using the Python data analysis library - pandas follows, which may be instructive in exploring the entire dataset to determine where the provided information is sparse or not available.  A choice of basemaps will allow for additional consideration of art and it's relation to geography.

The Metropolitan Museum of Art recorded over 7 million visitors in 2017, but most of the world will never enjoy the experience of seeing the collection in person.  However, the museum’s designation of many works of art as public domain, allows the high-resolution scans to be accessed and used without restriction, by everyone.  The use of interactive cartography in conjunction with the museums data and high-resolution scans of the artwork, will allow anyone with a computer and internet connection to experience the artwork through a new and interesting geo-visualization.  

<a href=https://digitalfootprints.github.io/artmap/pandas_profiling/PandasProfiling_Collection.html>View the results of pandas profiling on the full collection dataset</a>

<a href="https://digitalfootprints.github.io/artmap">View the map:  The Geography of Public Domain Objects at THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART</a>
